# ProficiencyPulse
A trained model which can predict the employee performance based on factors as inputs. This will be used to hire employees Recommendations to improve the employee performance based on insights from analysis The given Employee dataset consist of 1200 rows. The features present in the data are 28 columns. The shape of the dataset is 1200x28. The 28 features are classified into quantitative and qualitative where 19 features are quantitative (11 columns consists numeric data & 8 columns consists ordinal data) and 8 features are qualitative. EmpNumber consist alphanumerical data (distinct values) which doesn't play a role as a relevant feature for performance rating.

From Correlation we can get the important aspects of the data, Correlation between features and Performance Rating.Correlation is a statistical measure that expresses the extent to which two variables are linearly related.The analysis of the project has gone through the stage of Univariate,Bivariate & Multivariate analysis, correlation analysis and analysis by each department to satisfy the project goal.

The dataset consists of Categorical data and Numerical data. The Target variable consist of ordinal data, so this is a classification problem.The multiple machine learning model used in this project is Support vector classifier, Random forest classifier & Artifical neural network[Multilayer percepton]. from above all models Artifical neural network[Multilayer percepton] predicts higher accuracy 97%.
